Improvements:

Diablo2 features:
	Mercenaries of complementary classes (sidekick)
	Gem / rune embedding system
	Difficulty levels
More towns
More stores  
Much greater weapon selection
Addable limbs (cyborgs)
Recall first town in monkey island 1
Conversational ability
Different scales for different sized monsters 
Subquests and sidequests
Story
"Unbeatable" baddies, like ruby weapon and emerald weapon; beating them requires fluency in second language.
Vim-like functionality: 
	redo last action 
	macros
	modal interface - colon commands; "come tres fresas"
	tab completion of commands (bad idea if we want players typing out Spanish)
Arch linux like modularity
Remove food requirement...or use it as vocabulary pump
Selling of interesting items should be possible
"Tutor" characters
Small percentage of messages on sidebar will be in Spanish; percentage increases with level.

General innovations:
From Hacklike games: No need to carry spellbooks
More recognition of demigod status - aura, low-level creatures fear, vaporization within ambit, changing appearance
Extreme power curve
Low level creatures struck dead by aura
Borglike uniques

New concepts:
Tutor characters
Vocabulary pumps
The fewer the hours per day spent playing by the player, the more addictive the game becomes
The less the player uses Spanish (spells, inventory), the greater the incentive to do so.
	The fewer the (Spanish-requiring) spells cast by the player, the more creatures will appear which are vulnerable to magic, but resistant to physical damage.  The same can apply to specific items of grammar.  
Supermemo algorithm to avoid overtaxing the player

Story:
You are a cyborg of extraordinary power.  Previous builds failed due to problems of identity...operating system design.  Fundamental idea: using first person singular + possessive exclusively in one's thoughts causes one to identify cybernetic bodyparts with one's self, with disastrous results.  Think Halo Mjolnir body armor, spiderman symbiote, robocop, spawn.

Character classes could follow green berets.  Or character type could follow different special operations groups.
Officer
Grunt
Communications
Weapons specialist
Demolitions
Medic
